=== PAGE 1 ===
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019 3001
DeepLOB: Deep Convolutional Neural Networks for
Limit Order Books
Zihao Zhang , Stefan Zohren , and Stephen Roberts
Abstract—We develop a large-scale deep learning model to pre-
dict price movements from limit order book (LOB) data of cash
equities. The architecture utilizes convolutional ﬁlters to capture
the spatial structure of the LOBs as well as long short-term mem-
ory modules to capture longer time dependencies. The proposed
network outperforms all existing state-of-the-art algorithms on the
benchmark LOB dataset [A. Ntakaris, M. Magris, J. Kanniainen,
M. Gabbouj, and A. Iosiﬁdis, “Benchmark dataset for mid-price
prediction of limit order book data with machine learning meth-
ods,” J. Forecasting, vol. 37, no. 8, 852–866, 2018]. In a more realistic
setting, we test our model by using one-year market quotes from the
London Stock Exchange, and the model delivers a remarkably sta-
ble out-of-sample prediction accuracy for a variety of instruments.
Importantly, our model translates well to instruments that were
not part of the training set, indicating the model’s ability to extract
universal features. In order to better understand these features and
to go beyond a “black box” model, we perform a sensitivity anal-
ysis to understand the rationale behind the model predictions and
reveal the components of LOBs that are most relevant. The ability
to extract robust features that translate well to other instruments
is an important property of our model, which has many other ap-
plications.
Index Terms —Convolutional neural network, microstructure
market data, limit order book, LSTM, time series analysis.
I. I NTRODUCTION
I
N TODA Y’S competitive ﬁnancial world more than half of
the markets use electronic Limit Order Books (LOBs) [2] to
record trades [3]. Unlike traditional quote-driven marketplaces,
where traders can only buy or sell an asset at one of the prices
made publicly by market makers, traders now can directly view
all resting limit orders 1 in the limit order book of an exchange.
Because limit orders are arranged into different levels based on
their submitted prices, the evolution in time of a LOB represents
a multi-dimensional problem with elements representing the nu-
merous prices and order volumes/sizes at multiple levels of the
LOB on both the buy and sell sides.
Manuscript received October 18, 2018; revised February 11, 2019; accepted
March 9, 2019. Date of publication March 25, 2019; date of current version April
30, 2019. The associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and
approving it for publication was Dr. Sotirios Chatzis. This work was supported
in part by the Royal Academy of Engineering U.K. and the Oxford-Man Institute
of Quantitative Finance. (Corresponding author: Zihao Zhang.)
The authors are with the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance, De-
partment of Engineering Science, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD,
U.K. (e-mail:, zihao@robots.ox.ac.uk; zohren@robots.ox.ac.uk; sjrob@robots.
ox.ac.uk).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TSP .2019.2907260
1Limit orders are orders that do not match immediately upon submission and
are also called passive orders. This is opposed to orders that match immediately,
so-called aggressive orders, such as a market order. A LOB is simply a record
of all resting/outstanding limit orders at a given point in time.
A LOB is a complex dynamic environment with high dimen-
sionality, inducing modelling complications that make tradi-
tional methods difﬁcult to cope with. Mathematical ﬁnance is
often dominated by models of evolving price sequences. This
leads to a range of Markov-like models with stochastic driving
terms, such as the vector autoregressive model (V AR) [4] or the
autoregressive integrated moving average model (ARIMA) [5].
These models, to avoid excessive parameter spaces, often rely
on handcrafted features of the data. However, given the billions
of electronic market quotes that are generated everyday, it is
natural to employ more modern data-driven machine learning
techniques to extract such features.
In addition, limit order data, like any other ﬁnancial time-
series data is notoriously non-stationary and dominated by
stochastics. In particular, orders at deeper levels of the LOB are
often placed and cancelled in anticipation of future price moves
and are thus even more prone to noise. Other problems, such
as auction and dark pools [6], also add additional difﬁculties,
bringing ever more unobservability into the environment. The
interested reader is referred to [7] in which a number of these
issues are reviewed.
In this paper we design a novel deep neural network archi-
tecture that incorporates both convolutional layers as well as
Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) units to predict future stock
price movements in large-scale high-frequency LOB data. One
advantage of our model over previous research [8] is that it has
the ability to adapt for many stocks by extracting representative
features from highly noisy data.
In order to avoid the limitations of handcrafted features, we
use a so-called Inception Module [9] to wrap convolutional and
pooling layers together. The Inception Module helps to infer lo-
cal interactions over different time horizons. The resulting fea-
ture maps are then passed into LSTM units which can capture
dynamic temporal behaviour. We test our model on a publicly
available LOB dataset, known as FI-2010 [1], and our method
remarkably outperforms all existing state-of-the-art algorithms.
However, the FI-2010 dataset is only made up of 10 consec-
utive days of down-sampled pre-normalised data from a less
liquid market. While it is a valuable benchmark set, it is ar-
guable not sufﬁcient to fully verify the robustness of an algo-
rithm. To ensure the generalisation ability of our model, we fur-
ther test it by using one year order book data for 5 stocks from
the London Stock Exchange (LSE). To minimise the problem of
overﬁtting to backtest data, we carefully optimise any hyper-
parameter on a separate validation set before moving to the
out-of-sample test set. Our model delivers robust out-of-sample
1053-587X © 2019 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 2 ===
3002 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019
prediction accuracy across stocks over a test period of three
months.
As well as presenting results on out-of-sample data (in a tim-
ing sense) from stocks used to form the training set, we also
test our model on out-of-sample (in both timing and data stream
sense) stocks that are not part of the training set. Interestingly,
we still obtain good results over the whole testing period. We
believe this observation shows not only that the proposed model
is able to extract robust features from order books, but also in-
dicates the existence of universal features in the order book that
modulate stock demand and price. The ability to transfer the
model to new instruments opens up a number of possibilities
that we consider for future work.
To show the practicability of our model we use it in a simple
trading simulation. We focus on sufﬁciently liquid stocks so
that slippage and market impact are small. Indeed, these stocks
are generally harder to predict than less liquid ones. Since our
trading simulation is mainly meant as a method of comparison
between models we assume trading takes place at mid-price 2
and compare gross proﬁts before fees. The former assumption is
equivalent to assuming that one side of the trade may be entered
into passively and the latter assumes that different models trade
similar volumes and would thus be subject to similar fees. Our
focus here is using a simulation as a measure of the relative
value of the model predictions in a trading setting. Under these
simpliﬁcations, our model delivers signiﬁcantly positive returns
with a relatively small risk.
Although our network achieves good performance, a complex
“black box” system, such as a deep neural network, has limited
use for ﬁnancial applications without some understanding of
the rationale behind the model predictions. Here we exploit the
model-agnostic LIME method [10] to highlight highly relevant
components in the order book to gain a better understanding
between our predictions and model inputs. Reassuringly, these
conform to sensible (though arguably unusual) patterns of ac-
tivity in both price and volume within the order book.
Outline: The remainder of the paper is as follows. Section II
introduces background and related work. Section III describes
limit order data and the various stages of data preparation.
We present our network architecture in Section IV and give
justiﬁcations behind each component of the model. In Section V
we compare our work with a large group of popular methods.
Section VI summarises our ﬁndings and considers extensions
and future work.
II. B ACKGROUND AND RELA TEDWORK
Research on the predictability of stock markets has a long
history in the ﬁnancial literature e.g., [11], [12]. Although opin-
ions differ regarding the efﬁciency of markets, many widely
accepted studies show that ﬁnancial markets are to some extent
predictable [13]–[16]. Two major classes of work which attempt
to forecast ﬁnancial time-series are, broadly speaking, statistical
parametric models and data-driven machine learning approaches
[17]. Traditional statistical methods generally assume that the
2The average of the best buy and best sell prices in the market at the time.
time-series under study are generated from a parametric process
[18]. There is, however, agreement that stock returns behave
in more complex ways, typically highly nonlinearly [19], [20].
Machine learning techniques are able to capture such arbitrary
nonlinear relationships with little, or no, prior knowledge re-
garding the input data [21].
Recently, there has been a surge of interest to predict limit
order book data by using machine learning algorithms [1],
[20], [22]–[29]. Among many machine learning techniques, pre-
processing or feature extraction is often performed as ﬁnancial
time-series data is highly stochastic. Generic feature extraction
approches have been implemented, such as the Principal Com-
ponent Analysis (PCA) and the Linear Discriminant Analysis
(LDA) in the work of [24]. However these extraction methods
are static pre-processing steps, which are not optimised to max-
imise the overall objective of the model that observes them. In
the work of [24], [25], the Bag-of-Features model (BoF) is ex-
pressed as a neural layer and the model is trained end-to-end
using the back-propagation algorithm, leading to notably bet-
ter results on the FI-2010 dataset [1]. These works suggest the
importance of a data driven approach to extract representative
features from a large amout of data. In our work, we advocate
the end-to-end training and show that the deep neural network
by itself not only leads to even better results but also transfers
well to new instruments (not part of the training set) - indicating
the ability of networks to extract “universal” features from the
raw data.
Arguably, one of the key contributions of modern deep learn-
ing is the addition of feature extraction and representation as
part of the learned model. The Convolutional Neural Network
(CNN) [30] is a prime example, in which information extrac-
tion, in the form of ﬁlter banks, is automatically tuned to the
utility function that the entire network aims to optimise. CNNs
have been successfully applied to various application domains,
for example, object tracking [31], object-detection [32] and seg-
mentation [33]. However, there have been but a few published
works that adopt CNNs to analyse ﬁnancial microstructure data
[26], [34], [35] and the existing CNN architectures are rather un-
sophisticated and lack of thorough investigation. Just like when
moving from “AlexNet” [36] to “VGGNet” [37], we show that
a careful design of network archiecture can lead to better results
compared with all existing methods.
The Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) [38] was originally
proposed to solve the vanishing gradients problem [39] of recur-
rent neural networks, and has been largely used in applications
such as language modelling [40] and sequence to sequence learn-
ing [41]. Unlike CNNs which are less widely applied in ﬁnancial
markets, the LSTM has been popular in recent years, [20], [28],
[42]–[47] all utilising LSTMs to analyse ﬁnancial data. In par-
ticular, [20] uses limit order data from 1000 stocks to test a four
layer LSTM model. Their results show a stable out-of-sample
prediction accuracy across time, indicating the potential beneﬁts
of deep learning methods. To the best of our knowledge, there
is no work that combines CNNs with LSTMs to predict stock
price movements and this is the ﬁrst extensive study to apply
a nested CNN-LSTM model to raw market data. In particular,
the usage of the Inception Model in this context is novel and is
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 3 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEPLOB: DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR LIMIT ORDER BOOKS 3003
Fig. 1. A slice of LOB at time t and t +1 . L1 represents the respective ﬁrst
level, L2 the second, etc. p(1)
a (t) is the lowest ask price (best ask) and p(1)
b (t)
is the highest bid price (best bid) at time t.
essential in inferring the optimal “decay rates” of the extracted
features.
III. D ATA,N ORMALISA TION, AND LABELLING
A. Limit Order Books
We ﬁrst introduce some basic deﬁnitions of limit order books
(LOBs). For classical references on market microstructure the
reader is referred to [48], [49] and for a short review on LOBs
in particular we refer to [7]. Here we follow the conventions of
[7]. A LOB has two types of orders: bid orders and ask orders.
A bid (ask) order is an order to buy (sell) an asset at or below
(above) a speciﬁed price. The bid orders have prices Pb(t) and
sizes/volumes Vb(t), and the ask orders have prices Pa(t) and
sizes/volumes Va(t).B o t hP(t) and V(t) are vectors represent-
ing values at different price levels of an asset.
Fig. 1 illustrates the above concepts. The upper plot shows a
slice of a LOB at time t. Each square in the plot represents an
order of nominal size 1. This is done for simplicity, in reality
different orders can be of different sizes. The blue bars represent
bid orders and the yellow bars represent ask orders. Orders are
sorted into different levels based on their submitted prices, where
L1 represents the ﬁrst level and so on. Each level contains two
values: price and volume. On the bid side, Pb(t) and Vb(t) are
4-vectors in this example. We use p(1)
b (t) to denote the highest
available price for a buying order (ﬁrst bid level). Similarly,
p(1)
a (t) is the lowest available selling order (ﬁrst ask level). The
bottom plot shows the action of an incoming market order to
buy 5 shares at timet+1 . As a result, the entire ﬁrst and second
ask-levels are executed against that order andp(1)
a (t+1) moved
to 20.8 from 20.6 at time t.
B. Input Data
We test our model on two datasets: the FI-2010 dataset [1] and
one year length of limit order book data from the London Stock
Exchange (LSE). The FI-2010 dataset [1] is the ﬁrst publicly
available benchmark dataset of high-frequency limit order data
and extracted time series data for ﬁve stocks from the Nasdaq
Nordic stock market for a time period of 10 consecutive days.
Many earlier algorithms are tested on this dataset and we use it
to establish a fair comparison to other algorithms. However, 10
days is an insufﬁcient amount of data to fully test the robust-
ness and generalisation ability of an algorithm as the problem
of overﬁtting to backtest data is severe and we often expect a
signal to be consistent over a few months.
To address the above concerns, we train and test our model
on limit order book data of one year length for Lloyds Bank,
Barclays, Tesco, BT and V odafone. These ﬁve instruments are
among the most liquid stocks listed on the London Stock Ex-
change. It is generally more difﬁcult to train models on more
liquid stocks, but at the same time, those instruments are eas-
ier to trade without price impact so making the simple trading
simulation used to assess performance more realistic. The data
includes all LOB updates for the above names. It spans all trad-
ing days from 3rd January 2017 to 24th December 2017 and we
restrict it to the interval between 08:30:00 and 16:00:00, so that
only normal trading activities occur and no auction takes place.
Each state of the LOB contains 10 levels on each side and each
level contains information on both price and volume. Therefore,
we have a total of 40 features at each timestamp. Note that the
FI-2010 dataset is actually downsampled limit order book data
because the authors followed [50] to create additional features
by using every non-overlapping block of 10 events. We did not
perform any processing on our data and only feed raw order
book information to our algorithm.
Overall, our LSE dataset is made up of 12 months, and has
more than 134 million samples. On average, there are 150,000
events per day per stock. The events are irregularly spaced in
time. The time interval, Δk,k+1, between two events can vary
considerably from a fraction of a second to seconds, andΔk,k+1
is on average 0.192 seconds in the dataset. We take the ﬁrst 6
months as training data, the next 3 months as validation data and
the last 3 months as test data. In the context of high-frequency
data, 3 months test data corresponds to millions of observations
and therefore provides sufﬁcient scope for testing model perfor-
mance and estimating model accuracy.
C. Data Normalisation and Labelling
The FI-2010 dataset [1] provides 3 different normalised
dataset:z-score, min-max and decimal precision normalisation.
We used data normalised by z-score without any emendation
and found subtle difference when using the other two normal-
isation schemes. For the LSE dataset, we again use standard-
isation (z-score) to normalise our data, but use the mean and
standard deviation of the previous 5 days’ data to normalise
the current day’s data (with a separate normalisation for each
instrument). We want to emphasize the importance of normali-
sation because the performance of machine learning algorithms
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
3004 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019
often depends it. As ﬁnancial time-series usually experiences
regime shifts, using a static normalisation scheme is not appro-
priate for a dataset of one year length. The above method is
dynamic and the normalised data often falls into a reasonable
range. We use the 100 most recent states of the LOB as an in-
put to our model for both datasets. Speciﬁcally, a single input is
deﬁned as X =[ x1,x 2,...,x t,...,x 100]T ∈ R100×40, where
xt =[ p(i)
a (t),v (i)
a (t),p (i)
b (t),v (i)
b (t)]n=10
i=1 . p(i) and v(i) denote
the price and volume size at i-th level of a limit order book.
After normalising the limit order data, we use the mid-price
pt = p(1)
a (t)+ p(1)
b (t)
2 , (1)
to create labels that represent the direction of price changes. Al-
though no order can transact exactly at the mid-price, it expresses
a general market value for an asset and it is frequently quoted
when we want a single number to represent an asset price.
Because ﬁnancial data is highly stochastic, if we simply com-
pare pt and pt+k to decide the price movement, the resulting
label set will be noisy. In the works of [1] and [26], two smooth-
ing labelling methods are introduced. We brieﬂy recall the two
methods here. First, let m− denote the mean of the previous k
mid-prices and m+ denote the mean of the next k mid-prices:
m−(t)= 1
k
k∑
i=0
pt−i
m+(t)= 1
k
k∑
i=1
pt+i (2)
where pt is the mid-price deﬁned in Equation (1) and k is the
prediction horizon. Both methods use the percentage change (lt)
of the mid-price to decide directions. We can now deﬁne
lt = m+(t)−pt
pt
(3)
lt = m+(t)−m−(t)
m−(t) (4)
Both are methods to deﬁne the direction of price movement at
time t, where the former, Equation (3), was used in [1] and the
latter, Equation (4), in [26].
The labels are then decided based on a threshold ( α)f o rt h e
percentage change (lt). If lt >α orlt < −α, we deﬁne it as up
(+1)o rd o w n(−1). For anything else, we consider it as station-
ary (0). Fig. 2 provides a graphical illustration of two labelling
methods on the same threshold (α) and the same prediction hori-
zon (k). All the labels classiﬁed as down ( −1) are shown as red
areas and up (+1) as green areas. The uncoloured (white) regions
correspond to stationary (0) labels.
The FI-2010 dataset [1] adopts the method in Equation (3)
and we directly used their labels for fair comparison to other
methods. However, the produced labels are less consistent as
shown on the top of Fig. 2 because this method ﬁts closer to
real prices as smoothing is only applied to future prices. This
is essentially detrimental for designing trading algorithms as
signals are not consistent here leading to many redundant trading
actions thus incurring larger transaction costs.
Fig. 2. An example of two smoothed labelling methods based on a same
threshold (α) and same prediction horizon ( k). Green shading represents a +1
signal and red a −1. Top: [1]’s method and Bottom: [26]’s method.
Further, the FI-2010 dataset was collected in 2010 and the in-
struments were less liquid compared to now. We experimented
with this approach in [1] on our data from the London Stock Ex-
change and found the resulting labels are rather stochastic, there-
fore we adopt the method in Equation (4) for our LSE dataset to
produce more consistent signals.
IV . MODEL ARCHITECTURE
A. Overview
We here detail our network architecture, which comprises
three main building blocks: standard convolutional layers, an
Inception Module and a LSTM layer, as shown in Fig. 3. The
main idea of using CNNs and Inception Modules is to auto-
mate the process of feature extraction as it is often difﬁcult in
ﬁnancial applications since ﬁnancial data is notoriously noisy
with a low signal-to-noise ratio. Technical indicators such as
MACD and the Relative Strength Index are included as in-
puts and preprocessing mechanisms such as principal compo-
nent analysis (PCA) [51] are often used to transform raw inputs.
However, none of these processes is trivial, they make tacit as-
sumptions and further, it is questionable if ﬁnancial data can be
well-described with parametric models with ﬁxed parameters.
In our work, we only require the history of LOB prices and sizes
as inputs to our algorithm. Weights are learned during inference
and features, learned from a large training set, are data-adaptive,
removing the above constraints. A LSTM layer is then used to
capture additional time dependencies among the resulting fea-
tures. We note that very short time-dependencies are already
captured in the convolutional layer which takes “space-time im-
ages” of the LOB as inputs.
B. Details of Each Component
1) Convolutional Layer: Recent development of electronic
trading algorithms often submit and cancel vast numbers of limit
orders over short periods of time as part of their trading strategies
[52]. These actions often take place deep in a LOB and it is seen
[7] that more than 90% of orders end in cancellation rather than
matching, therefore practitioners consider levels further away
from best bid and ask levels to be less useful in any LOB. In
addition, the work of [53] suggests that the best ask and best bid
(L1-Ask and L1-Bid) contribute most to the price discovery and
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 5 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEPLOB: DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR LIMIT ORDER BOOKS 3005
Fig. 3. Model architecture schematic. Here 1 × 2@16 represents a convolu-
tional layer with 16 ﬁlters of size ( 1× 2). “1” convolves through time indices
and “2” convolves different limit order book levels.
the contribution of all other levels is considerably less, estimated
at as little as 20%. As a result, it would be otiose to feed all level
information to a neural network as levels deep in a LOB are less
useful and can potentially even be misleading. Naturally, we can
smooth these signals by summarising the information contained
in deeper levels. We note that convolution ﬁlters used in any
CNN architecture are discrete convolutions, or ﬁnite impulse
response (FIR) ﬁlters, from the viewpoint of signal processing
[54]. FIR ﬁlters are popular smoothing techniques for denoising
target signals and they are simple to implement and work with.
We can write any FIR ﬁlter in the following form:
y(n)=
M∑
k=0
bkx(n−k) (5)
where the output signal y(n) at any time is a weighted sum
of a ﬁnite number of past values of the input signal x(n).T h e
ﬁlter order is denoted as M and bk is the ﬁlter coefﬁcient. In a
convolutional neural network, the coefﬁcients of the ﬁlter kernel
are not obtained via a statistical objective from traditional signal
ﬁltration theory, but are left as degrees of freedom which the
network infers so as to extremise its value function at output.
The details of the ﬁrst convolutional layer inevitably need
some consideration. As convolutional layers operate a small
kernel to “scan” through input data, the layout of limit order
book information is vital. Recall that we take the most 100 re-
cent updates of an order book to form a single input and there
are 40 features per time stamp, so the size of a single input is
(100×40). We organise the 40 features as following:
{p(i)
a (t),v (i)
a (t),p (i)
b (t),v (i)
b (t)}n=10
i=1 (6)
where i denotes the i-th level of a limit order book. The size
of our ﬁrst convolutional ﬁlter is (1×2) with stride of (1×2).
The ﬁrst layer essentially summarises information between price
and volume {p(i),v (i)} at each order book level. The usage of
stride is necessary here as an important property of convolu-
tional layers is parameter sharing. This property is attractive as
less parameters are estimated, largely avoiding overﬁtting prob-
lems. However, without strides, we would apply same parame-
ters to{p(i),v (i)} and{v(i),p (i+1)}. In other words,p(i) andv(i)
would share same parameters because the kernel ﬁlter moves by
one step, which is obviously wrong as price and volume form
different dynamic behaviors.
Because the ﬁrst layer only captures information at each or-
der book level, we would expect representative features to be
extracted when integrating information across multiple order
book levels. We can do this by utilising another convolutional
layer with ﬁlter size (1×2) and stride (1×2). The resulting
feature maps actually form the micro-price deﬁned by [55]:
pmicro price = Ip(1)
a +(1 −I)p(1)
b
I = v(1)
b
v(1)
a +v(1)
b
(7)
The weight I is called the imbalance. The micro-price is an
important indicator as it considers volumes on bid and ask side,
and the imbalance between bid and ask size is a very strong
indicator of the next price move. This feature of imbalances has
been reported by a variety of researchers [56]–[60]. Unlike the
micro-price where only the ﬁrst order book level is considered,
we utilise convolutions to form micro-prices for all levels of a
LOB so the resulting features maps are of size (100,10) after
two layers with strides. Finally, we integrate all information by
using a large ﬁlter of size (1×10) and the dimension of our
feature maps before the Inception Module is (100,1).
We apply zero padding to every convolutional layer so the
time dimension of our inputs does not change and Leaky Rec-
tifying Linear Units (Leaky-ReLU) [61] are used as activation
functions. The hyper-parameter (the small gradient when the
unit is not active) of the Leaky-ReLU is set to 0.01, evaluated
by grid search on the validation set.
Another important property of convolution is that of equiv-
ariance to translation [62]. Speciﬁcally, a function f(x) is
equivariant to a function g if f(g(x)) =g(f(x)). For exam-
ple, suppose that there exists a main classiﬁcation feature m
located at (xm,y m) of an image I(x,y). If we shift every
pixel of I one unit to the right, we get a new image I′where
I′(x,y)= I(x−1,y). We can still obtain the main classiﬁca-
tion featurem′inI′andm = m′, while the location ofm′will be
at (xm′,y m′)=( xm −1,y m). This is important to time-series
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
3006 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019
data, because convolution can ﬁnd universal features that are de-
cisive to ﬁnal outputs. In our case, suppose a feature that studies
imbalance is obtained at time t. If the same event happens later
at time t′in the input, the exact feature can be extracted later
at t′.
We do not use any pooling layer except in the Inception Mod-
ules. Although pooling layers help us ﬁnd representations invari-
ant to translations of the input, the smoothing nature of pooling
can cause under-ﬁtting. Common pooling layers are designed
for image processing tasks, and they are most powerful when
we only care if certain features exist in the inputs instead of
where they exist [62]. Time-series data has different character-
istics from images and the location of representative features
is important. Our experiences show that pooling layers in the
convolutional layer, at least, cause under-ﬁtting problems to the
LOB data. However, we think pooling is important and new
pooling methods should be designed to process time-series data
as it is a promising solution to extract invariant features.
2) Inception Module: We note that all ﬁlters of a standard
convolutional layer have ﬁxed size. If, for example, we em-
ploy ﬁlters of size (4×1), we capture local interactions amongst
data over four time steps. However, we can capture dynamic be-
haviours over multiple timescales by using Inception Modules
to wrap several convolutions together. We ﬁnd that this offers a
performance improvement to the resultant model.
The idea of the Inception Module can be also considered as
using different moving averages in technical analysis. Practi-
tioners often use moving averages with different decay weights
to observe time-series momentum [63]. If a large decay weight
is adopted, we get a smoother time-series that well represents the
long-term trend, but we could miss small variations that are im-
portant in high-frequency data. In practice, it is a daunting task to
set the right decay weights. Instead, we can use Inception Mod-
ules and the weights are then learned during back-propagation.
In our case, we split the input into a small set of lower-
dimensional representations by using1×1 convolutions, trans-
form the representations by a set of ﬁlters, here 3×1 and5×1,
and then merge the outputs. A max-pooling layer is used inside
the Inception Module, with stride 1 and zero padding. “Incep-
tion@32” represents one module and indicates all convolutional
layers have 32 ﬁlters in this module, and the approach is de-
picted schematically in Fig. 4. The 1×1 convolutions form the
Network-in-Network approach proposed in [64]. Instead of ap-
plying a simple convolution to our data, the Network-in-Network
method uses a small neural network to capture non-linear prop-
erties of our data. We ﬁnd this method to be effective and it gives
us an improvement on prediction accuracy.
3) LSTM Module and Output: In general, a fully connected
layer is used to classify the input data. However, all inputs to
the fully connected layer are assumed independent of each other
unless multiple fully connected layers are used. Due to the usage
of Inception Module in our work, we have a large number of fea-
tures at end. Just using one fully connected layer with 64 units
would result in more than 630,000 parameters to be estimated,
not to mention multiple layers. In order to capture temporal rela-
tionship that exist in the extracted features, we replace the fully
connected layers with LSTM units. The activation of a LSTM
Fig. 4. The Inception Module used in the model. For example, 3× 1@32
represents a convolutional layer with 32 ﬁlters of size ( 3× 1).
unit is fed back to itself and the memory of past activations is
kept with a separate set of weights, so the temporal dynamics
of our features can be modelled. We use 64 LSTM units in our
work, resulting in about 60,000 parameters, leading to 10 times
fewer parameters to be estimated. The last output layer uses a
softmax activation function and hence the ﬁnal output elements
represent the probability of each price movement class at each
time step.
V. E XPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. Experiments Settings
We apply the same architecture to all our experiments in this
section and the proposed model is denoted as DeepLOB. We
learn the parameters by minimising the categorical cross-entropy
loss. The Adaptive Moment Estimation algorithm, ADAM [65],
is utilised and we set the parameter “epsilon” to 1 and the learn-
ing rate to 0.01. The learning is stopped when validation ac-
curacy does not improve for 20 more epochs. This is about 100
epochs for the FI-2010 dataset and 40 epochs for the LSE dataset.
We train with mini-batches of size 32. We choose a small mini-
batch size due to the ﬁndings in [66] in which they suggest that
large-batch methods tend to converge to narrow deep minima
of the training functions, but small-batch methods consistently
converge to shallow broad minima. All models are built using
Keras [67] based on the TensorFlow backend [68], and we train
them using a single NVIDIA Tesla P100 GPU.
B. Experiments on the FI-2010 Dataset
There are two experimental setups using the FI-2010 dataset.
Following the convention of [24], we denote them as Setup 1
and Setup 2. Setup 1 splits the dataset into 9 folds based on a
day basis (a standard anchored forward split). In the i-th fold,
we train our model on the ﬁrst i days and test it on the(i+1) -th
day where i =1 ,..., 9. The second setting, Setup 2, originates
from the works [25]–[28] in which deep network architectures
were evaluated. As deep learning techniques often require a large
amount of data to calibrate weights, the ﬁrst 7 days are used as
the train data and the last 3 days are used as the test data in this
setup. We evaluate our model in both setups here.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEPLOB: DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR LIMIT ORDER BOOKS 3007
TABLE I
SETUP 1: EXPERIMENT RESULTS FOR THE FI-2010 DATA S E T
Table I shows the results of our model compared to other
methods in Setup 1. Performance is measured by calculating the
mean accuracy, recall, precision, and F1 score over all folds. As
the FI-2010 dataset is not well balanced, [1] suggests to focus
on F1 score performance as fair comparisons. We have com-
pared our model to all existing experimental results including
Ridge Regression (RR) [1], Single-Layer-Feedforward Network
(SLFN) [1], Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) [22], Multilin-
ear Discriminant Analysis (MDA) [22], Multilinear Time-series
Regression (MTR) [22], Weighted Multilinear Time-series
Regression (WMTR) [22], Multilinear Class-speciﬁc Dis-
criminant Analysis (MCSDA) [23], Bag-of-Feature (BoF) [24],
Neural Bag-of-Feature (N-BoF) [24], and Attention-augmented-
Bilinear-Network with one hidden layer (B(TABL)) and two
hidden layers (C(TABL)) [25]. More methods such as PCA
and Autoencoder (AE) are actually tested in their works but,
for simplicity, we only report their best results and our model
achieves better performance.
However, the Setup 1 is not ideal for training deep learn-
ing models as we mentioned that deep network often requires
a large amount of data to calibrate weights. This anchored for-
ward setup leads to only one or two days’ training data for the
ﬁrst few folds and we observe worse performance in the ﬁrst
few days. As training data grows, we observe remarkably better
results as shown in Table II which shows the results of our net-
work compared to other methods in Setup 2. In particular, the
important difference between our model and CNN-I [26] and
TABLE II
SETUP 2: EXPERIMENT RESULTS FOR THE FI-2010 DATA S E T
TABLE III
AVERAGE COMPUTA TIONTIME OF STATE-OF-THE-ART MODELS
CNN-II [27] is due to network architecture and we can see huge
improvements on performance here. In Table III, we compare
the parameter sizes of DeepLOB with CNN-I [26]. Although
our model has many more layers, there are far fewer parameters
in our network due to the usage of LSTM layers instead of fully
connected layers.
We also report the computation time (forward pass) in mil-
liseconds (ms) for available algorithms in Table III. Due to the
development of GPUs, training deep networks is now feasible
and it is swift to make predictions, making it possible for high
frequency trading. We will discuss this more in the next section.
C. Experiments on the London Stock Exchange (LSE)
As we suggested, the FI-2010 dataset is not sufﬁcient to ver-
ify a prediction model - it is far too short, downsampled and
taken from a less liquid market. To perform a meaningful eval-
uation that can hold up to modern applications, we further test
our method on stocks from the LSE of one year length with a
testing period of three months. As mentioned in Section III, we
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 8 ===
3008 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019
TABLE IV
EXPERIMENT RESULTS FOR THE LSE DATA S E T
Fig. 5. Confusion matrices. Top: results on LLOY , BARC, TSCO, BT and
VOD. From the left to right, prediction horizon (k) equals 20, 50, and 100;
Bottom: results on transfer learning (GLEN, HSBC, CNA, BP , ITV).
train our model on ﬁve stocks: Lloyds Bank (LLOY), Barclays
(BARC), Tesco (TSCO), BT and V odafone (VOD). Recent work
of [20] suggests that deep learning techniques can extract uni-
versal features for limit order data. To test this universality, we
directly apply our model to ﬁve more stocks that were not part
of the training data set (transfer learning) . We select HSBC,
Glencore (GLEN), Centrica (CNA), BP and ITV for transfer
learning because they are also among the most liquid stocks in
the LSE. The testing period is the same three months as before,
and the classes are roughly balanced.
Table IV presents the results of our model for all stocks on dif-
ferent prediction horizons. To better investigate the results, we
display the confusion matrices in Fig. 5 and calculate the accu-
racy for every day and for every stock across the testing period.
We use the boxplots in Fig. 6 to present this information and
we can observe consistent and robust performance, with narrow
interquartile range (IQR) and few outliers, for all stocks across
the testing period. The ability of our model that generalises well
to data not in the training set indicates that the CNN block in the
algorithms, acting to extract features from the LOB, can capture
universal patterns that relate to the price formation mechanism.
We ﬁnd this observation most interesting.
D. Performance of the Model in a Simple Trading Simulation
A simple trading simulation is designed to test the practica-
bility of our results. We set the number of shares per trade, μ,
Fig. 6. Boxplots of daily accuracy for the different prediction horizons. Top:
results on LLOY , BARC, TSCO, BT and VOD; Bottom: results on transfer
learning (GLEN, HSBC, CNA, BP , ITV).
to one both for simplicity and to minimise the market impact,
ensuring orders to be executed at the best price. Although μ can
be optimised to maximise the returns, for example, prediction
probabilities are used to size the orders in [69], we would like to
show that our algorithm can work even under this simple set-up.
To reduce the number of trades, we use following rules to take
actions. At each time-step, our model generates a signal from
the network outputs(−1,0,+1) to indicate the price movements
ink steps. Signals (−1,0,+1) correspond to actions (sell, wait
and buy). Suppose our model produces a prediction of +1 at
time t, we then buy μ shares at time t+5 (taking slippage into
account), and hold until −1 appears to sell all μ shares (we do
nothing if 0 appears). We apply the same rule to short selling
and repeat the process during a day. All positions are closed by
the end of the day, so we hold no stocks overnight. We make
sure no trades take place at the time of auction, so no abnormal
proﬁts are generated.
As the focus of our work is on predictions and the above simple
simulation is a way of showing that this prediction is in principle
monetisable. In particular, our aim is not to present a fully de-
veloped, stand-alone trading strategy. Realistic high-frequency
strategies often require a combination of various trading signals
in particular to time the exact entry and exit points of the trade.
For the purpose of the above simulation we use mid-prices with-
out transaction costs. While in particular the second assumption
is not a reasonable assumption for a standalone strategy, we ar-
gue that (i) it is enough for a relative comparison of the above
models and (ii) it is a good indicator of the relative value of
the above predictor to a more complex high-frequency trading
model. Regarding the ﬁrst assumption, a mid-mid simulation,
we note that in high-frequency trading, many participants are
involved in market making, as it is difﬁcult to design proﬁtable
fully aggressive strategies with such short holding periods. If we
assume that we are able to enter the trade passively, while we
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 9 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEPLOB: DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR LIMIT ORDER BOOKS 3009
Fig. 7. Boxplots for normalised daily proﬁts and t-statistics for different stocks and prediction horizons (k). Proﬁts are in GBX ( = GBP/100).
Fig. 8. Normalised cumulative proﬁts for test periods for different stocks and prediction horizons (k). Proﬁts are in GBX( = GBP/100).
exit it aggressively, crossing the spread, then this is effectively
equivalent to a mid-mid trade. Such a situation arises naturally
for example in investment banks which are involved in client
market making. Regarding the second assumption, careful tim-
ing of the entry points as well as more elaborate trading rules,
such as including position upsizing, should be able to account
for additional proﬁts to cover the transaction costs. In any case,
as merely a metric of testing predictability of our model, the
above simple simulation sufﬁces.
Fig. 7 presents the boxplots for normalised daily proﬁts (prof-
its divided by number of trades in that day) for different stocks
and prediction horizons. We use a t-test to check if the proﬁts
are statistically greater than 0. The t-statistics is essentially the
same as Sharpe ratios but a more consistent evaluation metric
for high frequency trading. Fig. 8 shows the cumulative prof-
its across the testing period. We can observe consistent proﬁts
and signiﬁcant t-values over the testing period for all stocks.
Although we obtain worse accuracy for longer prediction hori-
zons, the cumulative proﬁts are actually higher as a more robust
signal is generated.
E. Sensitivity Analysis
Trust and risk are fundamental in any ﬁnancial application.
If we take actions based on predictions, it is always important
to understand the reasons behind those predictions. Neural net-
works are often considered as “black boxes” which lack inter-
pretability. However, if we understand the relationship between
the inputs’ components (e.g. words in text, patches in an image)
and the model’s prediction, we can compare those relationships
with our domain knowledge to decide if we can accept or reject
a prediction.
The work of [10] proposes a method, which they call LIME,
to obtain such explanations. In our case, we use LIME to reveal
components of LOBs that are most important for predictions and
to understand why the proposed model DeepLOB works better
than other network architectures such as CNN-I [26]. LIME
uses an interpretable model to approximate the prediction of a
complex model on a given input. It locally perturbs the input and
observes variations in the model’s predictions, thus providing
some measure of information regarding input importance and
sensitivity.
Fig. 9 presents an example that shows how DeepLOB and
CNN-I [26] react to a given input. In the ﬁgure we show the top
10 areas of pros (in green) and cons (in red) for the predicted
class (yellow being the boundary). Not coloured areas represent
the components of inputs that are less inﬂuential on the predicted
results or “unimportant”. We note that most components of the
input are inactive for CNN-I [26]. We believe that this is due to
two max-pooling layers used in that architecture. Because [26]
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 10 ===
3010 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019
Fig. 9. LIME plots. x-axis represents time stamps and y-axis represents levels
of the LOB, as labelled in the top image. Top: Original image. Middle: Impor-
tance regions for CNN-I [26]. Bottom: Importance regions for DeepLOB model.
Regions supportive for prediction are shown in green, and regions against in red.
The boundary is shown in yellow.
used large-size ﬁlters in the ﬁrst convolutional layer, any rep-
resentation deep in the network actually represents information
gleaned from a large portion of inputs. Our experiments applying
LIME to many examples indicate this observation is a common
feature.
VI. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we introduce the ﬁrst hybrid deep neural net-
work to predict stock price movements using high frequency
limit order data. Unlike traditional hand-crafted models, where
features are carefully designed, we utilise a CNN and an Incep-
tion Module to automate feature extraction and use LSTM units
to capture time dependencies.
The proposed method is evaluated against several baseline
methods on the FI-2010 benchmark dataset and the results show
that our model performs better than other techniques in pre-
dicting short term price movements. We further test the robust-
ness of our model by using one year of limit order data from
the LSE with a testing period of three months. An interesting
observation from our work is that the proposed model gener-
alises well to instruments that did not form part of the training
data. This suggests the existence of universal features that are
informative for price formation and our model appears to cap-
ture these features, learning from a large data set including sev-
eral instruments. A simple trading simulation is used to further
test our model and we obtain good proﬁts that are statistically
signiﬁcant.
To go beyond the often-criticised “black box” nature of deep
learning models, we use LIME, a method for sensitivity analy-
sis, to indicate the components of inputs that contribute to pre-
dictions. A good understanding of the relationship between the
input’s components and the model’s prediction can help us de-
cide if we can accept a prediction. In particular, we see how
the information of prices and sizes on different levels and hori-
zons contribute to the prediction which is in accordance with
our econometric understanding.
In a recent extension of this work we have modiﬁed the
DeepLOB model to use Bayesian neural networks [69]. This al-
lows to provide uncertainty measures on the network’s outputs
which for example can be used to upsize positions as demon-
strated in [69].
In subsequent continuations of this work we would like to in-
vestigate more detailed trading strategies, using Reinforcement
Learning, which are based on the feature extraction performed
by DeepLOB.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank members of Machine Learn-
ing Research Group at the University of Oxford for their help-
ful comments on drafts of this paper. They are most grate-
ful to the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance, who
provided limit order data and other support. Computation for
our work was supported by Arcus Phase B and JADE HPC
at the University of Oxford and Hartree national computing
facilities, U.K.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Ntakaris, M. Magris, J. Kanniainen, M. Gabbouj, and A. Iosiﬁdis,
“Benchmark dataset for mid-price prediction of limit order book data with
machine learning methods,” J. F orecasting, vol. 37, no. 8, 852–866, 2018.
[2] C. A. Parlour and D. J. Seppi, “Limit order markets: A survey,” in Hand-
book of Financial Intermediation and Banking . Amsterdam, The Nether-
lands: Elsevier, vol. 5, pp. 63–95, 2008.
[3] I. Rosu et al., “Liquidity and information in order driven markets,” Tech.
Rep., 2010.
[4] E. Zivot and J. Wang, “V ector autoregressive models for multivariate time
series,” Modeling Financial Time Series S-PLUS , pp. 385–429, 2006.
[5] A. A. Ariyo, A. O. Adewumi, and C. K. Ayo, “Stock price prediction
using the ARIMA model,” in Proc. 16th IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Model.
Simulation 2014, pp. 106–112.
[6] C. Carrie, “The new electronic trading regime of dark books, mashups and
algorithmic trading,” Trading, vol. 2006, no. 1, pp. 14–20, 2006.
[7] M. D. Gould, M. A. Porter, S. Williams, M. McDonald, D. J. Fenn, and S.
D. Howison, “Limit order books,” Quantitative Finance, vol. 13, no. 11,
pp. 1709–1742, 2013.
[8] W.-C. Chiang, D. Enke, T. Wu, and R. Wang, “An adaptive stock index
trading decision support system,”Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 59, pp. 195–207,
2016.
[9] C. Szegedy et al., “Going deeper with convolutions,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2015, pp. 1–9.
[10] M. T. Ribeiro, S. Singh, and C. Guestrin, “Why should I trust you?: Ex-
plaining the predictions of any classiﬁer,” in Proc. 22nd ACM SIGKDD
Int. Conf. Knowl. Discov. Data Mining. , ACM, 2016, pp. 1135–1144.
[11] A. Ang and G. Bekaert, “Stock return predictability: Is it there?” Rev.
Financial Studies, vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 651–707, 2006.
[12] P . Bacchetta, E. Mertens, and E. V an Wincoop, “Predictability in ﬁnancial
markets: What do survey expectations tell us?” J. Int. Money Finance ,
vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 406–426, 2009.
[13] T. Bollerslev, J. Marrone, L. Xu, and H. Zhou, “Stock return predictabil-
ity and variance risk premia: Statistical inference and international ev-
idence,” J. Financial Quantitative Anal. , vol. 49, no. 3, pp. 633–661,
2014.
[14] M. A. Ferreira and P . Santa-Clara, “Forecasting stock market returns: The
sum of the parts is more than the whole,” J. Financial Econ. , vol. 100,
no. 3, pp. 514–537, 2011.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 11 ===
ZHANG et al.: DEEPLOB: DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR LIMIT ORDER BOOKS 3011
[15] B. Mandelbrot and R. L. Hudson, The Misbehavior of Markets: A Frac-
tal View of Financial Turbulence . New Y ork, NY , USA: Basic books,
2007.
[16] B. B. Mandelbrot, “How fractals can explain what’s wrong with Wall
Street,” Sci. Amer, vol. 15, no. 9, 2008.
[17] J. Agrawal, V . Chourasia, and A. Mittra, “State-of-the-art in stock predic-
tion techniques,” Int. J. Adv. Res. Elect., Electron. Instrum. Eng. ,v o l .2 ,
no. 4, pp. 1360–1366, 2013.
[18] R. C. Cavalcante, R. C. Brasileiro, V . L. Souza, J. P . Nobrega, and A. L.
Oliveira, “Computational intelligence and ﬁnancial markets: A survey and
future directions,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 55, pp. 194–211, 2016.
[19] Q. Cao, K. B. Leggio, and M. J. Schniederjans, “A comparison between
Fama and French’s model and artiﬁcial neural networks in predicting the
Chinese stock market,”Comput. Oper . Res., vol. 32, no. 10, pp. 2499–2512,
2005.
[20] J. Sirignano and R. Cont, “Universal features of price formation in
ﬁnancial markets: perspectives from deep learning,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1803.06917.
[21] G. S. Atsalakis and K. P . V alavanis, “Surveying stock market forecasting
techniques–Part II: Soft computing methods,” Expert Syst. Appl. , vol. 36,
no. 3, pp. 5932–5941, 2009.
[22] D. T. Tran, M. Magris, J. Kanniainen, M. Gabbouj, and A. Iosiﬁdis, “Ten-
sor representation in high-frequency ﬁnancial data for price change pre-
diction,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Series Comput. Intell. , 2017, pp. 1–7.
[23] D. T. Tran, M. Gabbouj, and A. Iosiﬁdis, “Multilinear class-speciﬁc
discriminant analysis,” Pattern Recognit. Lett. , vol. 100, pp. 131–136,
2017.
[24] N. Passalis, A. Tefas, J. Kanniainen, M. Gabbouj, and A. Iosiﬁdis, “Tem-
poral bag-of-features learning for predicting mid price movements using
high frequency limit order book data,”IEEE Trans. Emerg. Topics Comput.
Intell., to be published.
[25] D. T. Tran, A. Iosiﬁdis, J. Kanniainen, and M. Gabbouj, “Temporal
attention-augmented bilinear network for ﬁnancial time-series data anal-
ysis,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst., to be published.
[26] A. Tsantekidis, N. Passalis, A. Tefas, J. Kanniainen, M. Gabbouj, and A.
Iosiﬁdis, “Forecasting stock prices from the limit order book using con-
volutional neural networks,” in Proc. IEEE 19th Conf. Business Inform. ,
2017, vol. 1, pp. 7–12.
[27] A. Tsantekidis, N. Passalis, A. Tefas, J. Kanniainen, M. Gabbouj, and A.
Iosiﬁdis, “Using Deep Learning for price prediction by exploiting station-
ary limit order book features,” 2018, arXiv:1810.09965.
[28] A. Tsantekidis, N. Passalis, A. Tefas, J. Kanniainen, M. Gabbouj, and
A. Iosiﬁdis, “Using deep learning to detect price change indications in
ﬁnancial markets,” in Proc. 25th IEEE Eur . Signal Process. Conf. , 2017,
pp. 2511–2515.
[29] M. Dixon, D. Klabjan, and J. H. Bang, “Classiﬁcation-based ﬁnancial
markets prediction using deep neural networks,” Algorithmic Finance ,
vol. 6, no. 3–4, pp. 67–77, 2017.
[30] Y . LeCun and Y . Bengio, “Convolutional networks for images, speech,
and time series,” in The Handbook of Brain Theory and Neural Networks ,
Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, pp. 255–258, 1998.
[31] N. Wang and D.-Y . Y eung, “Learning a deep compact image representa-
tion for visual tracking,” in Proc Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. , 2013,
pp. 809–817.
[32] R. Girshick, J. Donahue, T. Darrell, and J. Malik, “Rich feature hierarchies
for accurate object detection and semantic segmentation,” in Proc. IEEE
Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2014, pp. 580–587.
[33] J. Long, E. Shelhamer, and T. Darrell, “Fully convolutional networks for
semantic segmentation,” inProc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recog-
nit., 2015, pp. 3431–3440.
[34] J.-F. Chen, W.-L. Chen, C.-P . Huang, S.-H. Huang, and A.-P . Chen, “Fi-
nancial time-series data analysis using deep convolutional neural net-
works,” in Proc. 7th IEEE Int. Conf. Cloud Comput. Big Data , 2016,
pp. 87–92.
[35] J. Doering, M. Fairbank, and S. Markose, “Convolutional neural networks
applied to high-frequency market microstructure forecasting,” in Proc.
IEEE Comput. Sci. Electron. Eng. , 2017, pp. 31–36.
[36] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “Imagenet classiﬁcation
with deep convolutional neural networks,” Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst.,
pp. 1097–1105, 2012.
[37] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman, “V ery deep convolutional networks for
large-scale image recognition,” in Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. ,t ob e
published.
[38] S. Hochreiter and J. Schmidhuber, “Long short-term memory,” Neural
Comput., vol. 9, no. 8, pp. 1735–1780, 1997.
[39] Y . Bengio, P . Simard, and P . Frasconi, “Learning long-term dependen-
cies with gradient descent is difﬁcult,” IEEE Trans. Neural Netw.,v o l .5 ,
no. 2, pp. 157–166, 1994.
[40] M. Sundermeyer, R. Schlüter, and H. Ney, “LSTM neural networks for lan-
guage modeling,” in Proc. 13th Annu. Conf. Int. Speech Commun. Assoc. ,
2012.
[41] I. Sutskever, O. Vinyals, and Q. V . Le, “Sequence to sequence learning
with neural networks,” in Proc. Advances Neural Inf. Process. Syst., 2014,
pp. 3104–3112.
[42] W. Bao, J. Y ue, and Y . Rao, “A deep learning framework for ﬁnancial time
series using stacked autoencoders and long-short term memory,” PLoS
One, vol. 12, no. 7, 2017, Art. no. e0180944.
[43] S. Selvin, R. Vinayakumar, E. Gopalakrishnan, V . K. Menon, and K. So-
man, “Stock price prediction using LSTM, RNN and CNN-sliding window
model,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Adv. Comput., Commun. Inform. , 2017,
pp. 1643–1647.
[44] T. Fischer and C. Krauss, “Deep learning with long short-term memory
networks for ﬁnancial market predictions,” Eur . J. Oper . Res., vol. 270,
no. 2, pp. 654–669, 2018.
[45] L. Di Persio and O. Honchar, “Artiﬁcial neural networks architectures
for stock price prediction: Comparisons and applications,” Int. J. Circuits,
Syst. Signal Process., vol. 10, pp. 403–413, 2016.
[46] M. Dixon, “Sequence classiﬁcation of the limit order book using recurrent
neural networks,” J. Comput. Sci., vol. 24, pp. 277–286, 2018.
[47] D. M. Nelson, A. C. Pereira, and R. A. de Oliveira, “Stock market’s price
movement prediction with LSTM neural networks,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Joint Conf. Neural Netw., 2017, pp. 1419–1426.
[48] L. Harris, Trading and Exchanges: Market Microstructure for Practition-
ers. New Y ork, NY , USA: Oxford Univ. Press, 2003.
[49] M. O’Hara, Market Microstructure Theory. Cambridge, MA, USA: Black-
well Publishers, 1995, vol. 108.
[50] A. N. Kercheval and Y . Zhang, “Modelling high-frequency limit order book
dynamics with Support V ector Machines,”Quantitative Finance, vol. 15,
no. 8, pp. 1315–1329, 2015.
[51] A. Abraham, B. Nath, and P . K. Mahanti, “Hybrid intelligent systems
for stock market analysis,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Comput. Sci. , 2001,
pp. 337–345.
[52] T. Hendershott, C. M. Jones, and A. J. Menkveld, “Does algorithmic trad-
ing improve liquidity?” J. Finance, vol. 66, no. 1, pp. 1–33, 2011.
[53] C. Cao, O. Hansch, and X. Wang, “The information content of an open
limit-order book,” J. Futures Markets, vol. 29, no. 1, pp. 16–41, 2009.
[54] S. J. Orfanidis, Introduction to Signal Processing . Englewood Cliffs, NJ,
USA: Prentice-Hall, 1995.
[55] J. Gatheral and R. C. Oomen, “Zero-intelligence realized variance estima-
tion,” Finance Stochastics, vol. 14, no. 2, pp. 249–283, 2010.
[56] Y . Nevmyvaka, Y . Feng, and M. Kearns, “Reinforcement learning for op-
timized trade execution,” in Proc. 23rd Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. ,A C M ,
2006, pp. 673–680.
[57] M. Avellaneda, J. Reed, and S. Stoikov, “Forecasting prices from Level-I
quotes in the presence of hidden liquidity,” Algorithmic Finance,v o l .1 ,
no. 1, pp. 35–43, 2011.
[58] Y . Burlakov, M. Kamal, and M. Salvadore, “Optimal limit order execution
in a simple model for market microstructure dynamics,” 2012.
[59] L. Harris, “Maker-taker pricing effects on market quotations,” USC Mar-
shall School of Business Working Paper, 2013. [Online]. Available:
http://bschool.huji.ac.il/.upload/hujibusiness/Maker-taker.pdf
[60] A. Lipton, U. Pesavento, and M. G. Sotiropoulos, “Trade arrival dynam-
ics and quote imbalance in a limit order book,” 2013, arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.0514.
[61] A. L. Maas, A. Y . Hannun, and A. Y . Ng, “Rectiﬁer nonlinearities improve
neural network acoustic models,” in Proc. 30th Int. Conf. Mach. Learn. ,
vol. 30, 2013, p. 3.
[62] I. Goodfellow, Y . Bengio, and A. Courville, Deep Learning .C a m -
bridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 2016. [Online]. Available: http://www.
deeplearningbook.org
[63] T. J. Moskowitz, Y . H. Ooi, and L. H. Pedersen, “Time series momentum,”
J. Financial Econ., vol. 104, no. 2, pp. 228–250, 2012.
[64] M. Lin, Q. Chen, and S. Y an, “Network in network,” in Int. Conf. Learn.
Represent., to be published.
[65] D. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,”
in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent. , to be published.
[66] N. S. Keskar, D. Mudigere, J. Nocedal, M. Smelyanskiy, and P . T. P . Tang,
“On large-batch training for deep learning: Generalization gap and sharp
minima,” in Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., to be published.
[67] F. Chollet et al., “Keras,” 2015. [Online]. Available: https://keras.io
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

=== PAGE 12 ===
3012 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 67, NO. 11, JUNE 1, 2019
[68] M. Abadi et al. , “TensorFlow: Large-scale machine learning on hetero-
geneous systems,” 2015. [Online]. Available: https://www.tensorﬂow.org
[69] Z. Zhang, S. Zohren, and S. Roberts, “BDLOB: Bayesian Deep Convo-
lutional Neural Networks for Limit Order Books,” in Proc. 3rd Workshop
Bayesian Deep Learn., to be published.
Zihao Zhang received the B.Sc. degree in economics
and statistics from the University College London,
London, U.K., and the M.Sc. degree in applied statis-
tics from the University of Oxford, Oxford, U.K. He is
currently a D.Phil. student with the Oxford-Man Insti-
tute for Quantitative Finance and Machine Learning
Research Group, University of Oxford, supervised by
Dr. S. Zohren and Prof. S. Roberts. His current works
focus on Bayesian neural networks and design strate-
gies based on derived signals. His research interests
include quantitative ﬁnance, especially applying deep
learning models to ﬁnancial time series prediction.
Stefan Zohren is a permanent faculty member with
the Machine Learning Group and the Oxford-Man
Institute for Quantitative Finance (OMI), University
of Oxford, Oxford, U.K. Before joining the OMI, he
worked on equities market making as a quant Re-
searcher/Trader with the two leading high-frequency
trading (HFT) ﬁrms in London, U.K. Prior to that, he
coordinated the Quantum Optimization and Machine
Learning project, a joined research project of Oxford
University, Nokia Technologies and Lockheed Mar-
tin. His background is in theoretical physics, probabil-
ity theory and statistics. His research interests include machine learning applied
to market microstructure and HFT, statistical physics approaches to machine
learning and optimisation as well as quantum computing.
Stephen Roberts is the Royal Academy of Engineer-
ing/Man Group Professor in machine learning with
the University of Oxford, Oxford, U.K., the Director
of the Oxford-Man Institute of Quantitative Finance,
the founding-Director of the Oxford Centre for Doc-
toral Training in Autonomous Intelligent Machines
and Systems and a Co-founder of the Oxford Machine
Learning spin-out company, Mind Foundry, Oxford,
U.K. He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engi-
neering, the Royal Statistical Society, the IET, and the
Alan Turing Institute. He has authored/co-authored
extensively, having more than 350 publications that have accrued more than
22 000 citations. His research interests include lie in the theory and methodol-
ogy of machine learning for large-scale real-world problems, especially those
in which noise and uncertainty abound. His current research projects focus on
the application of machine learning in the physical sciences, the engineering
industry, and ﬁnance.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Oxford Libraries. Downloaded on March 23,2020 at 17:16:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 